# Semantic-segmentation-of-magnetic-resonance-MR-images-using-deep-learning.

Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) images are used in diagnosing cardiovascular diseases by providing the measures of left ventricle volume, mass , ejection fraction, etc. Driving these measures manually is time consuming and impractical with a large dataset. Our aim in this report to facilitate the process using semantic segmentation by devolving a model using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). In this project, we tried to develop an automated methodology using a Convolutional Neural Network that is able to segment an image of cardiovascular MR into four regions, the background, LV, RV, Myo.

The dataset is from the ACDC challenge. After the modifications by the instructors, it has 200 CMR images in a PNG format. These images splitted into 100 for training, 20 for validation and 80 for testing. The training and validation also have respective ground truth mask images. Training set (CMR images and mask images ) are used to train the network. The validation and test sets are used for choosing the hyperparameters and testing how accurately our model can segment these CMR images, respectively.

There are many popular choices for CMR semantic segmentation such as FCN, DeepLab and Unet. The suggested FCN architecture is taught end-to-end in a single learning stage on a graphics processing unit (GPU) to perform inference at each pixel, The FCN architecture comprises 15 stacked convolution layers and three layers of overlapping, two-pixel strided max pooling. Each convolution layer is followed by Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation function and MVN operation[1]. DeepLab, A deep convolutional neural network ResNet-101 performs semantic segmentation by two steps. First, converting all fully connected layers to convolutional layers (i.e., fully convolutional network). Second, increasing feature resolution with atrous convolutional layers, allowing us to compute feature responses every 8 pixels rather than every 32 pixels in the original network[2]. Finally,U-net architecture is widely used in medical image segmentation. Our implementation followed the same proposed architecture in [3] except the following: number of classes changed to 4 (background, LV, RV, Myo), padded convolutions were used to get the same size where in the paper unpadded convolutions were used, Batch Normalization were applied to decrease the number of epoch and speed up the learning process[4]

In this report , first we defined three models ( FCN, DeepLab and Unet) . Then, train the data using these models and comparing train loss and validation loss. After the comparison, we decided to continue the DeepLab and Unet as FCN got a very high loss. Next, experiments are done to find the optimizer, loss function and number of epochs to optimize our network’s generalization performance.
